ReCalc is a work in progress real estate calculator.

There are quite a few real estate calculators out there already, so why make a new one?

Well, let's first start with what I use these calculators for. My goal is to purchase and manage a bunch of rental properties. When I'm analyzing a property, I first need to make sure it is a good deal. You make your money when you buy, as they say. What determines a good deal, for my investment goals at least, is a certain minimum cash flow after all expenses as well as a cash on cash ROI over a specific percentage. The variables that go into this are many, but the truncated list is: purchase cost, market rent, expenses, and financing terms.

Most calculators will allow you to enter those variables I just mentioned, and then get a report that tells you what the ROI, cash flow, and other variables are. The problem here is that I get a black and white answer that tells me whether the deal is good or not, but real estate is all about creativity and negotiation. Deals aren't black and white, yes or no answers. They are conversations to be had. How many houses are purchased at exactly the listed price?

Unfortunately, if I want to test out some other parameters (like purchase price for example) to see what I can offer, the other calcs only offer me a guess and check approach of finding an answer that works. What I would like, and the goal of this calculator, is to allow a user to tell the app what are the important variables and what the minima/maxima are for those values. The app would respond by telling the user what parameters need to be filled out, and prompt the user for them. Once entered, any calculable values are displayed.

How about an example?
As mentioned, my parameters for a "good deal" are ROI and $/mo. Specifically, the numbers are 10% ROI or better and $100/month cash flow. I'll be able to mark these as minimum values, and then I'll be able to enter the information such as what I expect to be able to charge for rent per month, estimated repairs and maintenance, account for vacancies and property management, etc. Once the app has enough information, it'll automatically start calculating whatever it has sufficient data to solve. In this example, I'm looking to find out what purchase price I can afford to offer a seller that also satisfies my investing requirements.

So far, so good.
Next up is the ability to add what I am calling a 'funding matrix'. This is going to be a list of funding sources such as cash on hand, mortgages, seller financing, lines of credit, whatever. You'll be able to plug in either cash or percentage amounts for these sources as well. Maybe you want to see how the numbers work if you go with 20% cash down and 80% conventional mortgage. Or maybe you wanna see how it looks if you have $30k of a line of credit at 8% interest, a $20k line of credit at 10% interest, and have a partner willing to put in 50% of the purchase price at 6%.

You'll be able to set up multiple funding matrices, and these numbers will be used to determine costs that will plug into the calculations mentioned above, since interest rates and amounts will alter the amount paid to debt service each month (which then will change income per month, which changes how much I can offer, which changes the amount of money I need to invest, which changes the debt service again... This coincidentally is where I am currently still problem solving!).

That will all be version 1.0. Future improvements after that will allow a timeline line graph display to track variables over time, along with the ability to change funding matrices and deal parameters at keyframes along the timeline. This will then allow for more complex deal-building solutions such as the [BRRRR method](https://www.biggerpockets.com/renewsblog/brrrr-buyrehabrentrefinancerepeatprimer/) to be solved.